---
layout: post
title: Project Reflection
---

This reflection was written together on a Google Doc, except for the final section about applying this experience to the future.

## Achievements
Over the course of the quarter, we were able to develop 2 main Scrapy projects. The first project was able to systematically parse through cases and scrape about 2,400,000 relevant cases from the Virginia Online Case Information System. The second project used the Wayback Machine to gather the judges serving in the 120 (+1 that no longer exists) circuit courts going back to the early 2000s. With the tools included in pandas, we merged these  datasets to create a database containing court records dating back thirty years. Each case in the database includes case type and charge class, a description of the crime, the sentence, the defendant’s race and gender, and for about 70% of the cases, the name of the sentencing judge.

One aspect that we’re particularly proud of is how CaseSpider was able to through all the available cases. This is because we faced some issues with this early on, such as only being able to get the results by searching names, the portal having a minimum search criterion, getting too many case results etc. By taking advantage of Scrapy's asynchronous processing, we were able to systematically loop through all possible search terms (narrowing the search as needed). Something else that we’re proud of is the run_spiders script that created 119 concurrent spiders for each circuit court to crawl through the website. This effectively made our scraper run over 100 times faster than before, when it was running just a single spider for all the courts.

## Limitations and Future Opportunities
In general, we accomplished most of the goals outlined in the proposal. Of the 121 circuit courts, we completed scraping cases for 115, had partial cases for 4 (still running as of June 8th at 9PM), and missed 2 that did not use the online case system. However, we didn’t gather demographic information on the judges because we were unable to find this information online without manually Googling and looking through news articles/social media for each judge. Due to time constraints, we also didn't end up following through with the website idea floated in the proposal.

We originally wanted this database to be easily downloadable from the internet, but the file is too large to be hosted publicly on Github. We could instead start build some type of web portal in the future to make the information more widely accessible, especially for people unfamiliar with SQL (or pandas). The main purpose of this project was to create a resource for later research into potential biases within state-level sentencing in the United States. Now that the data is compiled, we could then do some data analysis with the information to find trends in Virginia’s system.

## Project Takeaways
The main skill from this project was better understanding of Scrapy to gather dynamically generated data. We used web browser developer tools to look at network requests and responses generated by the API behind the case website, then imitated them directly with Scrapy to avoid dealing with JavaScript events. As a team, we got more comfortable with using Github to collaborate on different files and the project as a whole. Finally, it's not a huge skill but we both were introduced to the functionality of the terminal and learned some basic commands as we worked with the server running our spiders.

*(written individually)*  
Unfortunately, most of the programming skills gained from this project won't be very helpful to my career (teaching) or future studies (finished the last "coding" requirement with this class). The experience of doing a group project with another person is always helpful though, since getting experience collaborating with people who have different work styles is beneficial for basically every field. While the process of website scraping and data management may not be relevant professionally, the results of any research done with our data could be important. If there are clear, systemic biases found in Virginia's court system, which implies problems exist in other states, then I think it would be important for anyone working in education to (at the very least) be aware of them.